A treaty of peace and friendship, made and concluded at Portage des Sioux between William Clark, Ninian Edwards, and Auguste Chouteau, Commissioners Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States, of the one part; and the undersigned King, Chiefs, and Warriors, of the Fox Tribe or Nation, on the part and behalf of the said Tribe or nation, of the other part.

The parties being desirous of re-establishing peace and friendship between the United States and the said tribe or nation, and of being placed in all things, and in every respect, on the same footing upon which they stood before the war, have agreed to the following articles:

ARTICLE 1.

Every injury or act of hostility by one or either of the contracting parties against the other, shall be mutually forgiven and forgot.

ARTICLE 2.

There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between the citizens of the United States of America and all the individuals composing the said Fox tribe or nation.

ARTICLE 3.

The contracting parties do hereby agree, promise, and oblige themselves, reciprocally, to deliver up all the prisoners now in their hands, (by what means soever the same may have come into their possession,) to the officer commanding at Fort Clark, on the Illinois river, to be by him restored to their respective nations as soon as it may be practicable.

ARTICLE 4.

The said Fox tribe or nation do hereby assent to, recognize, re-establish, and confirm, the treaty of St. Louis, which was concluded on the third day of November, one thousand eight hundred and four, to the full extent of their interest in the same, as well as all other contracts and agreements between the parties; and the United States promise to fulfill all the stipulations contained in the said treaty in favor of the said Fox tribe or nation.

In witness whereof, the said William Clark, Ninian Edwards, and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners as aforesaid, and the aforesaid king, chiefs and warriors of the Fox tribe or nation, aforesaid, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals this fourteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifteen, and of the independence of the United States the fortieth.

Done at Portage des Sioux, in the presence of—

Thomas Levens, lieutenant colonel, commandant 

Jno. W. Johnson, United States factor and Indian agent, 